Hey, guys, what's up this summer, hon, and I welcome you to another Dorelle on this course on Ruby.
And in this tutorial, we are going to see a very special statement that is provided by Ruby and is
referred as the unless statement.
This statement is executed on the given condition is false.
It is opposite of its statement.
In its statement, the block executes once the given condition is true, however, and unless statement
the block of code executes once the given condition is false and the statement is used when we are required
to print false condition, we cannot use if statement and our operator to print false statements because
if statement and our operator or this work on true condition.
So if you talk about the syntax of this, you can see it right over here.
You have unless you are, then you have to write in the condition.
At which if you want that, you want certain statements to get executed, if that condition is false
and you can help us with it if you want to, but that is also optional.
So if you want that, if condition is true, then you want some statements to get executed.
So you have to write and else and you have to write in the statements you want to execute and then it
is terminated by the end you work.
Then if you talk about the flow of go to hell.
So this is basically the flowchart for that.
It starts on, then it checks the condition.
If the condition is false, as I told you, since it is opposite of conditions, so the condition is
false, it is going to execute the code.
That is the only score, as you can see right over here.
Then if the condition is true, you can have an alarm clock and that code is going to get executed and
after that it is going to come out and in both cases, the after unlaced code is going to get executed,
which means that it is going to exit from that block of unless and it is going to execute everything
after that.
And then finally, it is going to end.
So I guess let's go to some examples and that will be done much more easier to understand.
So I'll move on to Adam.
And in here we will write a very simple code in which we will only print a certain, let's say something
like Hello World, or let's say something like my name.
So you can have a variable, let's say X equal to one.
And what you want is that you want to specify an unlisted mint.
That says X is greater than four.
So what you can do is that you can ride in boats.
Hello, world.
And after that, what you can do is that you can specify the Earth's condition and in the Earth's condition,
you can just write and put.
Hello ls so it is going to ride in the hello's, which means that our blog is going to get executed
and simply you are going to write in end or help.
So if I just run the code.
It is combining and as you can see, that it is printed out.
Hello.
Well, in our case, because this condition of our here is false because one is not greater than four.
What if this condition was not true?
For example, if I just initialize this to five?
So now this condition is true.
So but now run this code, you can see that it has printed out.
How else?
Because this condition over here is true.
And as I told you, that this is what is basically opposite of the if condition.
So that's why this scorable here that is in the unless block is going to get executed, if this condition
over here, which we have specified, is false.
So in the previous case, when the X was equal to one, this condition or here was false.
So we got HelloWallet printed out and in the second case, when this X was equal to five.
So this condition was then true.
So this court is going to get skipped and the else block is going to get executed and Halliwells is
going to get printed on your screen.
So this was the simplest explanation and the simplest example of how you can use that unless you work
in your Ruby code.
Now, you can also use unless as a modifier to modify an expression when you use, unless is a modifier
or the left hand side behave as a then condition and the right hand side behave as a test condition.
So to start on with the simplest example of how you can use unless as a modifier, we will just remove
this code from here.
We even have a variable X equal to, let's say, zero.
And then what we can write in that we can write the condition as well as the statement in a very single
line.
So let's say the statement is X plus equal to two, so X equal to X plus two is going to get executed
if this condition we specify after this unlucky word is false.
So let's say the condition is B dot zero.
So as you can see that this condition over here is true, right, an ex for him.
So this condition over here is true because the value of X is zero.
So this means that this condition over here is not going to get executed because we have X equal to
zero.
So since this condition is true.
So, as you know that unless it does not execute a set of statements, if a condition is true, it executes
a set of statement of a condition is false.
So after that, what we can simply write in that we can write in puts X run this code.
And as you can see, that it has printed out zero in our case because this condition of here was true.
So this statement does not get executed.
Now, let's say we have something that is not zero.
So let's say I just write in three, I run the score and as you can see, that I have got five for him.
This is because this condition was not false and since this condition was false.
So this statement over here is going to get executed.
X is going to equal to X plus two.
So it is going to equal to three plus two.
That is going to make it five.
And when I write in X over here, it is going to print five for me.
So that's how basically you can also use unless as a modifier to modify an expression, so I guess that's
it, that's how you can use unless you are normally and you can use unlet, skewered as a modifier.
So that's it with this tutorial.
Thank you so much, guys, for watching.
And I'll see you guys in the next tutorial.